Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of the contents on this portal, the same should not be construed as an accurate reproduction of the text for use for any legal purposes. DeitY and NIC accept no responsibility in relation to the accuracy, completeness, usefulness, or otherwise, of the contents. In no event, DeitY or NIC will be liable for any loss, damage, liability, or expense incurred or suffered that is claimed to have resulted from use of this portal, including, without limitation, any fault, virus, error, omission, interruption, or delay, with respect thereto, indirect or remote. The use of a website is at the user's sole risk. The user specifically acknowledges and agrees that DeitY and NIC are not liable for any conduct of any user. Links to other websites that have been included on this portal are provided for public convenience only. However, DeitY or NIC is not responsible for the contents or reliability of linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed therein. DeitY or NIC does not guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. Any disputes arising out of these terms and conditions shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of India. 
Automated translations from English to Indian languages on this website are provisioned, but they may not be precise. Some content, including text, applications, graphics, and documents, may not get translated. Automated translation tool works well on Chrome and Mozilla Firefox browsers. 
