 Frequently Asked Questions* [Startups](#startup)
* [Incubators](#incubator)
The Scheme and Eligibility Criteria* The Scheme and Eligibility Criteria
* Application Process
* Evaluation Process
* After Selection of Startups
* The Scheme and Eligibility Criteria
* Application Process
* Evaluation Process
* After Selection of Startups
The Scheme and Eligibility CriteriaWhat is Startup India Seed Fund Scheme?Startup India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS) provides financial assistance to startups for proof of concept, prototype development, product trials, market\-entry, and commercialization. Eligible startups can apply for the scheme on the Startup India portal. The Seed Fund will be disbursed to selected startups through eligible incubators across India.Who can apply to SISFS?A startup, recognized by DPIIT, incorporated not more than 2 years ago at the time of application is invited to apply for the scheme. Detailed eligibility criteria can be found at <https://seedfund.startupindia.gov.in/about>.  
 To get DPIIT\-recognized, please visit [https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/startupgov/startup\-recognition\-page.html](https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/startupgov/startup-recognition-page.html) How much seed funding can a startup receive under the scheme?Seed Fund to an eligible startup by the incubator shall be disbursed as follows:  
1. Up to Rs. 20 Lakhs as grant for validation of Proof of Concept, or prototype development, or product trials. The grant shall be disbursed in milestone\-based installments. These milestones can be related to development of prototype, product testing, building a product ready for market launch, etc.
2. Up to Rs. 50 Lakhs of investment for market entry, commercialization, or scaling up through convertible debentures or debt or debt\-linked instruments
3. A startup applicant can avail seed support in the form of grant and debt/convertible debentures each once as per the guidelines of the scheme
Can I apply for the scheme as an individual entrepreneur, or do I need a team?No, individual entrepreneurs are not eligible to apply for support under the scheme. Only DPIIT recognized startups can apply for the SISFS. To get DPIIT\-recognized, please visit [https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/startupgov/startup\-recognition\-page.html](https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/startupgov/startup-recognition-page.html)Does the scheme support startups from specific sectors?SISFS is a sector agnostic scheme, which means that startups from any sector can apply for the scheme. However, preference would be given to startups creating innovative solutions in sectors such as social impact, waste management, water management, financial inclusion, education, agriculture, food processing, biotechnology, healthcare, energy, mobility, defense, space, railways, oil and gas, textiles, etc. This list of sectors is indicative and not exhaustive.Are there any minimum education qualification criteria for founders to apply for SISFS?There is no minimum education qualification required for founders to apply for SISFSAre there any exemptions to any of the eligibility criteria?No, there are no exemptions to any of the eligibility criteria. All the criteria must be met on the date of application submission.What is a DPIIT\-recognized startup?An entity shall be considered a “Startup” –1. If it’s incorporated as either Private Limited Company or Registered Partnership Firm or Limited Liability Partnership. A sole proprietorship or a public limited company is not eligible as startup
2. If it is up to 10 years from the date of its incorporation/ registration
3. If its turnover for any of the financial years has not exceeded INR 100 crore
4. If it is working towards innovation, development or improvement of products or processes or services, or if it is a scalable business model with a high potential of employment generation or wealth creation
5. Should not have been formed by splitting up or reconstruction of a business already in existence.
To get DPIIT\-recognized, please visit   
[https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/startupgov/startup\-recognition\-page.html](https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/startupgov/startup-recognition-page.html ) What all can I use the seed fund for?Seed fund shall strictly not be used by startups for creation of any facilities and shall be utilized for the purpose it has been granted for. A grant can be used for validation of Proof of Concept, or prototype development, or product trials. A debt/ convertible debenture can be used for Market entry, Commercialization, or Scaling up. Application ProcessHow can I apply to SISFS?An online call for applications is hosted on an ongoing basis on the Startup India portal will be opened soon. DPIIT\-recognized startups can login using the credentials used during the startup recognition process to apply for the scheme.Is the SISFS application process completely online?The application submission is completely online, and no physical submission of documents is required.Is there a fee for applying to this scheme?There are no application fees for the scheme. Even after the selection of a startup by an incubator for assistance under this scheme, the startup shall not be charged any fees. The incubator or any of its staff members shall not charge any fee in cash or in kind from applicants or beneficiaries under the scheme for any process of selection, disbursement, incubation, or monitoring.Why is the application form allowing me to apply to 3 incubators?The scheme aims to maximize the chances of each startup applicant getting supported through seed funds. It also aims to give startups an opportunity to get supported by a relevant incubator that can give the necessary guidance to them. Thus, we give startups an option to apply to 3 different incubators according to their preference. For example, if incubators at Preference 1 and Preference 2 both select a startup, the funding shall be given by Preference 1 incubator. If Preference 1 incubator rejects and Preference 2 incubator selects, the funding shall be given by incubator at Preference 2, and so on.How do I choose the incubators to apply to?The incubator preference should be filled at the startup applicants’ discretion. Applicants can choose incubators basis their sector, stage, business needs, and strategic goals. Details of the incubators which are part of the scheme will be available on Seed Fund Portal soon.I can see an option to apply either for a grant or convertible debenture or loan instruments. What is the difference between these? How do I choose?A grant and debt/convertible debenture are different financing instruments to cater different startup needs. The following table can help an applicant startup decide which instrument shall suit their needs better. The final decision on this should be at the startup applicants’ discretion.  

| Parameter | Grant | Debt/Convertible Debenture |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Stage | Ideation Stage | Commercialization \& Scale\-up stage |
| Need Catered by the fund | Validation of Proof of Concept, or Prototype development, or Product trials | Market entry, Commercialization, or Scaling up |
| Max. funding amount | Upto Rs. 20 Lakhs | Upto Rs. 50 Lakhs |
| Financing Terms | Under this scheme, the grant will be disbursed in milestone\-based installments. These milestones can be related to development of prototype, product testing, building a product ready for market launch, etc. | For startups being supported through convertible debentures, or debt, or debt\-linked instruments, funds shall be provided at a rate of interest of not more than prevailing repo rate. The tenure should be fixed at the time of sanctioning the loan by the incubator, which shall be not more than 60 months (5 years). A moratorium of up to 12 months may be provided for the startups. Because of the early stage of the startups, this shall be unsecured and no guarantee from promoter or third\-party will be required. |

What are the terms and conditions of seed fund under the scheme?The scheme guidelines are available at [https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/dam/invest\-india/Templates/public/Guidelines%20for%20Startup%20India%20Seed%20Fund%20Scheme.pdf](https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/dam/invest-india/Templates/public/Guidelines%20for%20Startup%20India%20Seed%20Fund%20Scheme.pdf) Is the information provided by me in the application form kept confidential?We maintain confidentiality of all the proposals we receive under the scheme. Your application is only shared with the incubators you apply to for the purpose of evaluation, and with the EAC for the purpose of monitoring. Do I need to be physically present at an incubator’s’ premises to avail seed funds under this scheme?To apply for the scheme, it is not mandatory to be physically present at the incubator’s location. For startups being monitored virtually by the incubator, it is required for both parties to touch base every 30 days. This is to ensure that an incubator will be able to keep a check on the progress of the startup and a startup will be able to take guidance for their business from the incubator.Can I apply to the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme again after receiving a rejection?Yes, you can apply to the SISFS again after 6 Weeks of receiving a rejection. This buffer time is given to ensure that you have worked on the feedback received from incubators and are ready to be considered again.Evaluation ProcessWho is going to review my application?Application of each startup will be reviewed by an Incubator Seed Management Committee (ISMC) formed by the incubators you apply to. The committee will also be responsible for future assessment of the performance of the startup and disbursement of further tranches. Each ISMC constitutes of the following members:1. Nominee of Incubator (Chairman)
2. A representative from the State Government’s Startup Nodal Team
3. A representative of a Venture Capital Fund or Angel Network
4. A domain expert from Industry
5. A domain expert from academia
6. Two successful Entrepreneurs
7. Any other relevant Stakeholder
What are the parameters for evaluation of startup applicants?

| Criteria | Details |
| --- | --- |
| Is there a need for this Idea? | Market size, what market gap is it filling, does it solve a real\-world problem? |
| Feasibility | Feasibility and reasonability of the technical claims, the methodology used/ to be used for PoC and validation, a roadmap for product development |
| Potential Impact | Customer demographic \& the technology’s effect on these, national importance (if any) |
| Novelty | USP of the technology, associated IP |
| Team | Strength of the team, Technical and business expertise |
| Fund Utilization Plan | Roadmap of money utilization |
| Additional Parameters | Any additional parameters considered appropriate by the incubator |
| Presentation | Overall assessment |

What is the process of evaluation?The startups shall be selected through an open, transparent and fair process, comprising, inter\-alia:1. Startups submit their application on the Startup India portal and an email confirmation is shared with them. Applicants can apply for seed fund to any three incubators selected as disbursing partners for this scheme in order of their preference.
2. All applications received will be shared online with respective incubators for further evaluation.
3. For all incomplete applications, a prompt of resubmission will be sent to the startup.
4. The incubators shall shortlist applicants as per eligibility criteria
5. Eligible applications will be evaluated by Incubator Seed Management Committee (ISMC) using the following criteria:

|  | Criteria | Details | Weightage (%) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Is there a need for this Idea? | Market size, what market gap is it filling, does it solve a real\-world problem? | p |
| 2 | Feasibility | Feasibility and reasonability of the technical claims, methodology used/ to be used for PoC and validation, roadmap for product development | q |
| 3 | Potential Impact | Customer demographic \& the technology’s effect on these, national importance (if any) | r |
| 4 | Novelty | USP of the technology, associated IP | s |
| 5 | Team | Strength of the team, Technical and business expertise | t |
| 6 | Fund Utilization Plan | Roadmap of money utilization | u |
| 7 | Additional Parameters | Any additional parameters considered appropriate by incubator | v |
| 8 | Presentation | USP of the technology, associated IP | Overall assessment |
|  | | | 100% |
| Weightages for criteria (p, q, r, s, t, u, v, w) may be assigned by each incubator differently | | | |
6. Incubator may shortlist applicants based on their evaluation for a presentation before ISMC
7. ISMC shall evaluate applicants based on their submissions and presentations and select startups for Seed Fund within 45 days of receipt of application
8. Selected startups shall receive seed funding under the respective incubator that selects them as beneficiaries as per their preference shared during application (for example, if incubators at Preference 1 and Preference 2 both select a startup, the funding shall be given by Preference 1 incubator. If Preference 1 incubator rejects and Preference 2 incubator selects, the funding shall be given by incubator at Preference 2, and so on.)
9. All applicants will be able to track the progress of their application on the Startup India portal on a real\-time basis
10. Applicants who are rejected will also be notified through email
How much time will it take for my application to get processed?After the receipt of the application, each Incubator shall evaluate applicants based on their submissions and presentations and select startups for Seed Fund within 45 daysHow can I track the status of my application?Once the startup has submitted its seed fund scheme application, a dashboard can be accessed using their login credential to check the real\-time application statusAfter Selection of StartupsI had filled an order of preference for incubators while applying. Can I change this preference order after application?Applications once filled and submitted are final. The preference order of the incubator cannot be changed at a later stage.I have been selected for seed fund, but the quantum of fund/ terms and conditions being set by the incubator are not agreeable to me. What should I do?The quantum and terms for the seed fund assistance are to be negotiated between the startup and the incubator only. The mandatory elements of the scheme can be seen in the Guidelines on [https://dipp.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines\-FundScheme\-Startup\-29January2021\.pdf](https://dipp.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines-FundScheme-Startup-29January2021.pdf), anything beyond this can be negotiated. In case of any issue, kindly reach out to us using grievance form at [https://seedfund.startupindia.gov.in/contact](/contact) I need to hire a legal or financial consultant for my seed fund discussions with the incubator. Who will bear the cost of these services?The startup shall bear the cost of any consultants required to guide them through documentation, negotiations with incubator, signing of agreement with incubator, reporting progress after approval of seed fund, etc. Hiring such an external consultant is not mandatory at all, and shall be at the discretion of the startup. I have been selected for seed fund. Is it mandatory to sign a legal agreement with the incubator?Yes, it is mandatory to sign a legal agreement with the incubator to avail the seed fund you have been granted.I had applied for a certain amount of seed fund, but the approved amount is lower/higher. Can I negotiate this?The applicant can discuss the quantum of seed fund and the milestones associated with the tranches to be disbursed with the Incubator Seed Management Committee. The decision of the Committee shall be final.Will my living expenses be borne if I want to be physically incubated at the incubator that is funding me?The selected incubator shall provide physical infrastructure to the selected startups for regular functioning, support for testing and validating ideas, mentoring for prototype or product development or commercialization, and developing capacities in finance, human resources, legal compliances, and other functions. They are also expected to provide networking with investors and opportunities for showcasing in various national and international events. Any other expenses, including living expenses, shall be borne by the startup.How much time will it take for the first installment of the seed fund to be released to me?For grants, the first installment to any selected startup shall be released not more than 60 days from receipt of application from the startup. The startup shall submit the interim progress update and utilization certificate to initiate the release of subsequent installment of grant. For debt or convertible debentures, a similar timeline will be aimed but it is understood that due diligence and documentation in these cases can be sometimes time\-consuming.Where can I receive the seed funds?Startups will receive the funds in their company bank accounts.How often do I have to report back my progress after receiving seed fund?Each startup will be required to touch base with the incubator team and share updates with them at least once in 15 days via videoconferences or physical meetings. These updates should be shared on the scheme dashboard at least on a monthly basis. In case of milestone\-based disbursements, startup shall submit the interim progress update and utilisation certificate to initiate the release of subsequent installment of grant. Startup shall also submit final report and audited utilisation certificate at the end of the project duration.I have been selected for seed fund, but I would not like to take the process forward. What do I do?A startup can choose to not avail the support being offered to them under the scheme. The procedure for the same depends on the stage of the startup in the application process.1. If the startup has been selected and the seed funding has been approved, they will be required to write a short letter mentioning the reason to pull out of the process. Post the acknowledgment of the letter, they will find a cancel application button on the application tracker tab of their dashboard which will allow them to cancel their application
2. If the startup has already received any seed fund, it will be required to write a short letter mentioning the reason to pull out of the process. Post acknowledgment of the letter, they will be required to return the fund within 15 days. Post the acknowledgment of refund, they will find a cancel application button on the application tracker tab of their dashboard
What if my startup fails after receiving the seed fund? Will there be any liability on me or my company?It is understood that every startup cannot be successful. The legal agreement that you sign with the incubator will have provisions related to failure of startups supported under the scheme. For failed ventures, the entrepreneur shall share his/her learnings and the reasons for failure in the report and submit this along with the utilization certificate for the fund amount.I have some complaints regarding the incubator funding me. Who shall I reach out to?In case of any issue, kindly reach out to us using grievance form at [https://seedfund.startupindia.gov.in/contact](/contact) The Scheme and Eligibility Criteria* The Scheme and Eligibility Criteria
* About Application Process
* About Evaluation Process
* Post Evaluation Process
* Disbursement of the Seed Fund
* About the Scheme and Eligibility Criteria
* About Application Process
* About Evaluation Process
* Post Evaluation Process
* Disbursement of the Seed Fund
About the Scheme and Eligibility CriteriaWhat is Startup India Seed Fund Scheme?Startup India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS) provides financial assistance to startups for proof of concept, prototype development, product trials, market\-entry, and commercialization. Eligible startups can apply for the scheme on the Startup India portal. The Seed Fund will be disbursed to selected startups through eligible incubators across India.What is the eligibility criteria for incubators to apply for SISFS?Any Indian incubator operational for at least two years (for Government\-supported incubators) and for three years (for incubators non supported by Government) on the date of application can apply to the scheme. For detailed eligibility criteria, please visit <https://seedfund.startupindia.gov.in/about> What is the quantum of funds offered by the scheme to a selected incubator?A Grant of up to Rs. 5 (five) crore would be provided to a selected incubator in milestone\-based three (or) more installments. The exact quantum of grant and instalments for each incubator will be decided by the Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) based on its evaluation.Is there a Management Fee provisioned in the scheme for selected incubators?Yes, a component of Management Fee @ 5% of Seed Fund grant to the incubator will be provisioned (i.e. if an incubator is granted Rs. 1 crore of Seed Fund, then by including management fee @ 5%, the total assistance would be Rs. 1\.050 crore). The Management Fee will be utilized for administrative expenditure, selection and due diligence of startups, and monitoring of progress of beneficiary startups. The Management Fee provisioned for incubators shall not be used by the incubator for facility creation or any other administrative expenses. As Installments of the Grant are released to incubators, proportionate Management fee shall also be released with each installment.What can the incubator use this Grant of up to Rs 5 Cr. for?Incubators shall use the grant for disbursal of seed fund to eligible startups as follows:  
1. Up to Rs. 20 Lakhs as grant for validation of Proof of Concept, or prototype development, or product trials. The grant shall be disbursed in milestone\-based installments. These milestones can be related to development of prototype, product testing, building a product ready for market launch, etc.
2. Up to Rs. 50 Lakhs of investment for market entry, commercialization, or scaling up through convertible debentures or debt or debt\-linked instruments
3. Not more than 20% of the total grant to an incubator shall be given as grants to startups by incubator
4. A startup applicant can avail seed support in the form of grant and debt/convertible debentures each once as per the guidelines of the scheme
Incubators shall not use the grant for facility creation or any other expenses. A component of Management Fee @ 5% of Seed Fund grant to the incubator will be provisioned (i.e. if an incubator is granted Rs. 1 crore of Seed Fund, then by including management fee @ 5%, the total assistance would be Rs. 1\.050 crore). The Management Fee will be utilized for administrative expenditure, selection and due diligence of startups, and monitoring of progress of beneficiary startups. The Management Fee provisioned for incubators shall not be used by the incubator for facility creation or any other administrative expenses.How much time does the incubator have to disburse the entire sanctioned fund to startups?The grant should be utilized fully by the incubator within a period of three years from the date of receipt of the first installment of funds. If the Incubator has not utilized at least 50% of the total commitment within the first 2 years, then the Incubator will not be eligible for any further drawdowns. It will return all unutilized funds along with interest.What are the guidelines of the scheme?The terms and conditions of seed fund under the scheme can be found in scheme guidelines document available at [https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/dam/invest\-india/Templates/public/Guidelines%20for%20Startup%20India%20Seed%20Fund%20Scheme.pdf](https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/dam/invest-india/Templates/public/Guidelines%20for%20Startup%20India%20Seed%20Fund%20Scheme.pdf)What are my responsibilities under this scheme?The incubators shall be responsible for providing physical infrastructure to the selected startups for regular functioning, support for testing and validating ideas, mentoring for prototype or product development or commercialization, and developing capacities in finance, human resources, legal compliances, and other functions. They are also expected to provide networking with investors and opportunities for showcasing in various national and international events. If the selected startup does not want to utilize the physical infrastructure of the incubator, the incubator shall offer all other resources and services to the startup.What is the ISMC?Each of the incubators applying for the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme will constitute a committee called the Incubator Seed Management Committee (ISMC), consisting of experts who can evaluate and select startups for seed support. The composition of ISMC would be as follows:  
1. Nominee of Incubator (Chairman)
2. Representative from State Government’s Startup Nodal Team
3. Representative of a Venture Capital Fund or Angel Network
4. A domain expert from Industry
5. A domain expert from academia
6. Two successful Entrepreneurs
7. Any other relevant Stakeholder
The final composition and members of ISMC of each incubator shall be approved by EAC and will be a critical parameter in selection of incubatorsI am not able to find relevant members for ISMC. Can Startup India or EAC help me find members?Startup India or EAC shall not be directly involved in constituting the members of ISMC at each incubator. It is the responsibility of the selected incubator to constitute the ISMC.About Application ProcessHow can I apply to SISFS?An online call for applications is hosted on an ongoing basis on the Startup India portal at [https://www.startupindia.gov.in](https://www.startupindia.gov.in/)Is the SISFS application process completely online?The application submission is completely online, and no physical submission of documents is required.Is there a fee for applying to this scheme?There are no application fees for the scheme. Even after the selection of a startup by an incubator for assistance under this scheme, the startup shall not be charged any fees. The incubator or any of its staff members shall not charge any fee in cash or in kind from applicants or beneficiaries under the scheme for any process of selection, disbursement, incubation, or monitoring.Do I need to have a pool of startups ready to fund when I apply for the scheme?No. A central Call for Applications for startups will be hosted by DPIIT on Startup India portal. Applicants can apply for seed fund to any three incubators selected as disbursing partners for this scheme in order of their preference. All applications received will be shared online with respective incubators for further evaluation.Is the information provided by me in the application form kept Confidential?We maintain confidentiality of all the proposals we receive under the scheme. Your application is only shared with the EAC for the purpose of evaluation and monitoring. What are the terms and conditions of seed fund under the scheme?The scheme guidelines are available at Link Is the information provided by me in the application form kept confidential?We maintain confidentiality of all the proposals we receive under the scheme. Your application is only shared with the incubators you apply to for the purpose of evaluation, and with the EAC for the purpose of monitoring. Do I need to be physically present at an incubator’s’ premises to avail seed funds under this scheme?To apply for the scheme, it is not mandatory to be physically present at the incubator’s location. It is completely a voluntary choice. For startups being monitored virtually by the incubator, it is required for both parties to touch base every 30 days. This is to ensure that an incubator will be able to keep a check on the progress of the startup and a startup will be able to take guidance for their business from the incubator.Can I apply to the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme again after receiving a rejection?Yes, you can apply to the SISFS again after 3 months of receiving a rejection. This buffer time is given to ensure that you have worked on the feedback received from incubators and are ready to be considered again.About Evaluation ProcessWho is going to review my application?An Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) has been constituted by DPIIT will evaluate and select incubators for allotment of Seed Funds, monitor progress, and take all necessary measures for efficient utilization of funds towards the fulfilment of objectives of the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme. The Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) members can be seen hereWhat are the evaluation criteria for the SISFS?Incubators shall be selected based on the following parameters:1. Fulfillment of eligibility criteria
2. Quality of the team of Incubator
3. Available infrastructure, testing labs etc.
4. Composition of ISMC
5. Incubation support provided by incubator in last three years:  
\- No. of startups incubated  
\- No. of startups graduated, i.e. progressed from one stage of business development cycle to the next  
\- No. of startups that raised follow on investments  
\- No. of startups that crossed a revenue of Rs 1 Cr in last 1 year  
\- 2\-year survival rate of startups from the date of joining incubator
6. Funding support extended to incubatees in last three years:  
\- Investment agreements signed between incubator and startups  
\- No. of startups invested in  
\- Total corpus allocated to incubatees  
\- Total investments raised by incubatees from external sources
7. Mentoring provided to incubatees in last three years:  
\- No. of mentors hired  
\- Average mentoring hours allocated per startup per month  
\- No. of IP (patents, copyrights, designs, and trademarks) registered by incubatees
8. Other support extended to incubatees in last three years:  
\- Industry/Corporate connects  
\- Events held for stakeholder engagements  
\- Participation in other events
9. Number of startups that the incubator intends to support
10. Quantum of funds applied for, along with fund deployment plan with timelines
11. Any other relevant parameters that decided by the EAC
What is the process of evaluation?The Call for Applications for incubators will be open online throughout the year. Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) will convene at least quarterly to:1. Evaluate the applications received during the period
2. Select incubators for funds under the Scheme
3. Decide the total amount of fund and number of installments in which it is to be allocated to each incubator
4. Specify milestones to be achieved by each incubator for release of installments
How much time will it take for my application to get processed?The Call for Applications for incubators will be open online throughout the year. Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) will convene at least quarterly to evaluate the applications received during the period, select incubators for funds under the Scheme and, decide the total amount of fund and number of installments in which it is to be allocated to each incubator. How can I track the status of my application?Once the incubator has submitted its seed fund scheme application, they will get access to their respective dashboard. The dashboard can be accessed using their login credential to check the real\-time application statusPost\-Evaluation ProcessI have been selected for seed fund, but the terms and conditions being set by the EAC are not agreeable to me. What should I do?Features of the scheme, as mentioned in Guidelines on [https://dipp.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines\-FundScheme\-Startup\-29January2021\.pdf](https://dipp.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines-FundScheme-Startup-29January2021.pdf), are non\-negotiable. Any other terms, such as quantum of fund, quantum of each tranche, or milestones, are to be negotiated between the EAC and the incubator only. If a selected incubator chooses to not participate in the scheme for any reason, they can communicate the same to DPIIT and the EAC.What is the process of fund disbursement to be followed by incubators after getting selected by the EAC?After approval by EAC, the following actionables must be completed before release of first instalment:\-  
**Before issuance of Sanction Order to Incubator from DPIIT (through email):\-**1. To open a Trust and Retention Account in any Nationalized Bank by the Incubator and share the ECS mandate form signed by the bank in prescribed format
2. To share details on Public Financial Management System (PFMS)  
**a.** For Incubators already registered on PFMS: To share Unique PFMS Agency Code  
**b.** For Incubators not registered on PFMS: To share following information \-  
  i. Type of registration:  
  ii. PAN Number:  
  iii. Agency Name:  
  iv. Act or Registration No:  
  v. Registering Authority:  
  vi. Registering Authority Name:  
  vii. State Of Registration:  
  viii. TIN Number:  
  ix. TAN Number:  
  x. Father/Husband Name:  
  xi. Birth Date:   
  xii. GST Number:   
  xiii. Full Address:   
  xiv. Contact Person:   
  xv. Designation:  
  xvi. Phone Number:  
  xvii. STD Code:  
  xviii. Phone Number:   
  xix. Mobile Number:   
  xx. Email:   
  xxi. Agency Name In Bank:  
  xxii. Bank Name:  
  xxiii. IFSC Code:   
  xxiv. Account Number:
3. To share the ID of registration on Darpan Portal of NITI Aayog (www.ngodarpan.gov.in).
**After Issuance of Sanction Order to ensure release of funds**  
Below mentioned documents need to be shared through email at sis\-dipp@gov.in and physical copy through post at the following address: (Startup India Section, Room No.: 435A, DPIIT, Ministry of Commerce \& Industry, Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi – 110011\)1. To furnish TRA Agreement signed by the concerned bank and Incubator
2. To send pre\-receipt in prescribed format affixing revenue stamp and signing across
3. To send an undertaking that it will comply with all the terms and conditions stipulated in the sanction order, including that the incubator will not avail any funds from any other Ministry/Department of Government of India or State Government for this purpose under SISFS.
How much time will it take for the seed fund to be released to a selected incubator?Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) will convene at least quarterly to evaluate incubator applications and select incubators for funds under the Scheme. The exact quantum of grant and instalments for each incubator will be decided by the Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) based on its evaluation. DPIIT will release the first tranche of funds to the incubator as per the directions of EAC. When the cash\-in\-hand of the incubator goes below 10% of the total commitment by EAC, the Incubator may request for the next installment, which shall be released to incubator within 30 days of submission of proof of achievement of milestones. The incubator shall submit the interim progress update and utilisation certificate to initiate the release of subsequent installment of grant.How many tranches with the sanctioned seed fund be released in to the selected incubators?A Grant of up to Rs. 5 (five) crore would be provided to a selected incubator in milestone\-based three (or) more installments. The exact quantum of grant and instalments for each incubator will be decided by the Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) based on its evaluation. The quantum of first installment may be up to 40% of total approved commitment.Where can selected incubators receive funds?Each selected incubator shall maintain an exclusive, project\-specific Trust and Retention Account (TRA) with any nationalized bank.How often do I have to report back my progress after receiving seed fund?1. Each Incubator shall provide information on progress of selected startups (see Para 10 of guidelines) real\-time to Startup India through their online dashboards and shall present the same to EAC on a quarterly basis
2. Incubator shall also report return on investment for each Startup.
3. Each incubator shall report the funds sanctioned, received, and disbursed to each startup for each financial year
4. Incubators would also submit detailed report on status of utilization of funds and audited expenditure for each financial year
I want to quit the scheme. What are the provisions? An incubator can quit the scheme. The procedure for the same depends on the stage of the incubator in the application process.1. If the incubator has been selected and the first tranche is approved, they will be required to write a short letter mentioning the reason to pull out of the process. Post the acknowledgment of the letter, they will find a cancel application button on the application tracker tab of their dashboard which will allow them to cancel their application
2. If the incubator has already received the first tranche, it will be required to write a short letter mentioning the reason to pull out of the process. Post acknowledgment of the letter, they will be obliged to return the fund along with the interest accumulated within 15 days. Post the acknowledgment of refund, they will find a cancel application button on the application tracker tab of their dashboard
Disbursement of the Seed FundWhat is the ISMC?Each of the incubators applying for the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme will constitute a committee called the Incubator Seed Management Committee (ISMC), consisting of experts who can evaluate and select startups for seed support. The composition of ISMC would be as follows:1. Nominee of Incubator (Chairman)
2. Representative from State Government’s Startup Nodal Team
3. Representative of a Venture Capital Fund or Angel Network
4. A domain expert from Industry
5. A domain expert from academia
6. Two successful Entrepreneurs
7. Any other relevant Stakeholder
The final composition and members of ISMC of each incubator shall be approved by EAC and will be a critical parameter in selection of incubatorsWhat is the process for selecting startups for seed fund?1. An online call for applications shall be hosted for startups on an ongoing basis on the Startup India portal
2. Applicants can apply for seed fund to any three incubators selected as disbursing partners for this scheme in order of their preference
3. All applications received will be shared online with respective incubators for further evaluation
4. The incubators shall shortlist applicants as per eligibility criteria
5. Incubator may shortlist applicants based on their evaluation for a presentation before ISMC
6. ISMC shall evaluate applicants based on their submissions and presentations and select startups for Seed Fund within 45 days of receipt of application
7. All incubators shall provide information about progress of evaluation of startups real\-time to Startup India portal
8. Selected startups shall receive seed funding under the respective incubator that selects them as beneficiaries as per their preference shared during application (for example, if incubators at Preference 1 and Preference 2 both select a startup, the funding shall be given by Preference 1 incubator. If Preference 1 incubator rejects and Preference 2 incubator selects, the funding shall be given by incubator at Preference 2, and so on.)
9. Incubator shall conduct due diligence of the startups and sign legal agreement with them
10. For grants, the first installment to any selected startup shall be released not more than 60 days from receipt of application from the startup.
What are the parameters for evaluation of startup applicants?

|  | Criteria | Details |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Is there a need for this Idea? | Market size, what market gap is it filling, does it solve a real\-world problem? |
| 2 | Feasibility | Feasibility and reasonability of the technical claims, methodology used/ to be used for PoC and validation, roadmap for product development |
| 3 | Potential Impact | Customer demographic \& the technology’s effect on these, national importance (if any) |
| 4 | Novelty | USP of the technology, associated IP |
| 5 | Team | Strength of the team, Technical and business expertise |
| 6 | Fund Utilization Plan | Roadmap of money utilization |
| 7 | Additional Parameters | Any additional parameters considered appropriate by incubator |
| 8 | Presentation | Overall assessment |
| Weightages for each of the above criteria may be assigned by incubator. | | |

Do incubators need the approval of EAC for selecting or funding a startup?No. The ISMC of each incubator will be responsible for evaluating and selecting startups for seed support under the scheme.How much seed funding can a startup receive under the scheme? Seed Fund to an eligible startup by the incubator shall be disbursed as follows:1. Up to Rs. 20 Lakhs as grant for validation of Proof of Concept, or prototype development, or product trials. The grant shall be disbursed in milestone\-based installments. These milestones can be related to development of prototype, product testing, building a product ready for market launch, etc.
2. Up to Rs. 50 Lakhs of investment for market entry, commercialization, or scaling up through convertible debentures or debt or debt\-linked instruments
3. Not more than 20% of the total grant to an incubator shall be given as grants to startups by incubator
4. A startup applicant can avail seed support in the form of grant and debt/convertible debentures each once as per the guidelines of the scheme
What are the terms and conditions of seed funding through convertible debentures or debt or debt\-linked instruments?For startups being supported through convertible debentures, or debt, or debt\-linked instruments, funds shall be provided at a rate of interest of not more than prevailing repo rate. The tenure should be fixed at the time of sanctioning the loan by the incubator, which shall be not more than 60 months (5 years). A moratorium of up to 12 months may be provided for the startups. Because of the early stage of the startups, this shall be unsecured and no guarantee from promoter or third\-party will be required. If the startup requires legal help for finalizing their seed fund engagement with an incubator, who will bear the cost for these services?The startup shall bear the cost of any consultant hired to guide them finalizing their seed fund engagement with an incubator.Who will be bearing the cost for due diligence of the startups?The Management Fee provisioned to each selected incubator will be utilized for administrative expenditure, selection and due diligence of startups, and monitoring of progress of beneficiary startups.Do incubators need to sign an Agreement with selected startups?The incubator shall execute a legal agreement with the selected startups before the release of the first installment. The incubators shall ensure that the necessary terms and conditions, including milestones, related to the Seed Fund are clearly detailed in the agreement.Will incubators be provided a sample Agreement to sign with each selected startup?Yes. The incubator can make suitable changes to the sample agreement on the basis of the terms and conditions finalized with each selected startup. However, no mandatory clause of the Guidelines may be changed in this Agreement.Can incubators charge any fee from the selected startups?A startup selected by an incubator for assistance under this scheme shall not be charged any fees. The incubator or any of its staff members shall not charge any fee in cash or in kind from applicants or beneficiaries under the scheme for any process of selection, disbursement, incubation, or monitoring.How often do incubators have to interact with selected startups?Each startup will be required to touch base with the incubator team and share updates with them at least once in 15 days via videoconferences or physical meetings. These updates should be shared on the scheme dashboard at least on a monthly basis.What parameters does an incubator need to track for selected startups?The following shall be tracked and recorded by incubators for all beneficiary startups:1. Progress of proof of concept
2. Progress of prototype development
3. Progress of product development
4. Progress of field trials
5. Progress of market launch
6. Quantum of loan, angel or VC funding raised
7. Jobs created by startup
8. Turnover of startup
9. Any other appropriate parameter
Selected startups shall furnish details on above parameters to incubator in all progress reports. The incubator shall provide the above information real\-time to Startup India through their online dashboards and shall present the same to EAC on a quarterly basis. Incubator shall also report return on investment for each Startup.When can incubators ask DPIIT for the next installment of funds?When the cash\-in\-hand of the incubator goes below 10% of the total commitment by EAC, the Incubator may request for the next installment, which shall be released to incubator within 30 days of submission of proof of achievement of milestones.We have received a tranche of funds but have not been able to select many startups. What happens to the unutilized funds?Rate of interest (as defined under GFR) on unutilized funds available with incubator shall be taken into account and adjusted at the time of next release. If the Incubator has not utilized at least 50% of the total commitment within the first 2 years, then the Incubator will not be eligible for any further drawdowns. It will return all unutilized funds along with interest. In case of poor performance of any selected incubator, EAC may decide to discontinue seed fund support to the incubator and take further action as may be required.How does an incubator utilize net returns from seed funding into startups?Any net return received from beneficiary startup can be used for further funding in startups as per guidelines of this scheme (net returns shall include principal, interest, and profits). In case of no further funding of startups using this money for three years, this shall be returned to DPIIT.What happens if a startup fails?It is understood that every startup cannot be successful.Can an incubator reapply to the scheme if they successfully disburse funds sanctioned to them?An incubator can reapply for funds under the Scheme when it has disbursed or committed its entire previously released grant. TOP